revision/enhancement of bootstrapping/formation agreement (#88)
commonhaus/foundation-draft: agreements/bootstrapping/BOOTSTRAPPING.md

---
status: draft
---
# Commonhaus Foundation Bootstrapping Agreement

- Project: `Name`, `github organization`
- EGC representative: `github id`

This document outlines the preliminary, non-binding agreement for the establishment phase of the Commonhaus Foundation (CF), aiming to foster a collaborative community dedicated to open-source projects.

- [EGC Quorum Establishment](#egc-quorum-establishment)
- [Preliminary Commitment](#preliminary-commitment)
- [Formation Period](#formation-period)
- [Binding Commitments Post-Formation](#binding-commitments-post-formation)
- [Feedback and Iteration](#feedback-and-iteration)
- [Acknowledgement](#acknowledgement)

[cc-dm]: ../../bylaws/5-decision-making.md
[cfc-async]: ../../bylaws/3-cf-council.md#electronic-participation-and-decision-making
[coc]: ../../policies/code-of-conduct.md
[coc-cf]: ../../CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[coc-tpl]: ../../templates/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[gov-cf]: ../../GOVERNANCE.md
[gov-tpl]: ../../templates/GOVERNANCE.md

## EGC Quorum Establishment

Five projects are required for moving forward with binding commitments.

> Each must appoint an EGC member to approve revised bylaws.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each project must have an appointed EGC member to approve revised bylaws.
```

## Preliminary Commitment

> By engaging in this agreement, projects indicate their preliminary intent to join the Commonhaus Foundation (CF), with the understanding that this stage does not involve any legal transfer of assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By engaging in this agreement, projects indicate their preliminary, and non binding, intent to join the Commonhaus Foundation (CF), with the understanding that this stage does not involve any legal transfer of assets.
```

During this period, projects are expected to:

- Adopt the [Code of Conduct][coc], as illustrated by [this project's CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md][coc-cf] and the corresponding [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md template][coc-tpl].
- Clearly document their current governance practices within their top-level project or repository[^1] for transparency. No changes to governance or operational practices is required. Refer to [this project's GOVERNANCE.md][gov-cf] and the [GOVERNANCE.md template][gov-tpl] for guidance.
- Engage in the development and refinement of CF's operational processes, ensuring all actions align with the [CF decision-making process][cc-dm].

[^1]: As an example, this could be in either the primary or `.github` repository within a GitHub organization.

## Binding Commitments Post-Formation

Projects are invited to enter into formal binding agreements at any stage during the Formation Period.
These agreements will encompass the transfer of project assets, such as trademarks and domains, formally integrating projects within the Commonhaus Foundation.

> Should fewer than five projects commit their trademarks during or by the end of the Formation Period, the remaining projects retain the right to withdraw their membership without facing any penalties or obligations.

Reviewer: What happens if a project commits their trademarks during the Formation Period, but by the end of the period there aren't 5 projects committed? Their trademarks still need to be transferred to another 503(c), correct?

Is there anything we can do to mitigate the problem of projects committing when there's still uncertainty over how many will commit?

Reviewer: You're right, it is in line with other by-laws.

I'm mostly trying to think if there's anything we can do to mitigate projects committing to donating and then the foundation dissolving through lack of projects. I'm worried it means some projects will hold off committing until the last possible moment, leaving the foundation on uncertain footing until the end of the formation period. I'll caveat by saying this is certainly a "worst-case" type situation, I'm hopeful all projects in the formation period are eager to commit before the end of the period

Author: They will sign this agreement. We will know how many there are.

## Feedback and Iteration

To ensure the Commonhaus Foundation's (CF) governance and operational frameworks remain responsive and effective, regular feedback mechanisms will be established for the Extended Governance Committee (EGC).
These mechanisms include both convened sessions and asynchronous feedback via GitHub discussions, in accordance with the [electronic participation guidelines][cfc-async] and the [decision-making process][cc-dm] outlined in our bylaws.
This approach aims to address concerns, suggest operational improvements, and ensure ongoing alignment with the collective goals of the CF community, fostering a collaborative and flexible environment for governance and decision-making.

## Acknowledgement

> By making a signed commit to this document in the Commonhaus Foundation's repository, the undersigned EGC representative of the participating project acknowledges their understanding of the terms outlined herein and expresses their non-binding intent to support the establishment of the Commonhaus Foundation.

Reviewer: Does "signed commit" need to explicitly state "git signed commit"?
